---
title: A blog these days?
date: '2024-07-13'
description: Is worth or not
---

## Hasn't this gone out of style?

Maybe. I don't really care. Unlike what happened when the *blogosphere* phenomenon exploded, now the Internet is consumed in a much more massive way, not through texts written by a random geek at home, but rather through one-minute videos or less. However, it's still in the written text, and not so much in the audiovisual content, where I find the highest quality content. It's in those niche blogs, on the topics that interest me, where a person, surprisingly similar to me, shares common interests, the place where I enjoy the most.

Also, the flexibility that blogs offers is unparalleled. You are not limited by format or length; you can write as much or as little as you want. You can explore topics in depth, share personal experiences, or even publish detailed research. This creative freedom is something that is not easily found on other platforms.

And it's not just about writing; reading blogs also has its magic. Each blog is a window into another person's mind, an opportunity to learn and grow through their experiences and knowledge. It's a more intimate and thoughtful way to consume content, something many of us seek amidst the digital hubbub.

In an increasingly fast-paced digital world, blogs offers respite and an opportunity to reflect. They give us the platform to express our ideas, thoughts and emotions in their entirety, without having to condense them into a one-minute video clip or a 280-character tweet. They allow us to be completely authentic and honest, without having to adapt to the expectations and norms of social media.

It's difficult to find pages of this type, since they are not mainstream, and don't usually play into the hands of search engines. There are usually two ways in which a person finds these types of pearls on the internet. On the one hand, it may be that you are looking for information on a very specific topic (Who hasn't ever looked for how to integrate a Headless CMS with Next.js for a fluid content editing experience?) and that the search engine is so benevolent to offer you, among all the pages generated by AI with optimized SEO, a blog of a humble person, who has not only taken the trouble to integrate a Headless CMS with Next.js, but has also lovingly documented the process. The other way to find interesting blogs is by linking to other interesting blogs. This is how the internet worked in the beginning, before the big search engines (I wasn't there, I read about it on a blog). And it seems that this is how quality internet continues to work.

The fact that it's so difficult to find personal blogs on topics that interest you makes the discovery, when it occurs, even more pleasant. That moment when you discover that someone has been writing since 2004 about a topic that you thought only you were interested in. And you begin to read almost relentlessly 20 years of publications, with a mixture of admiration and respect for someone who, however, only manifests itself through bits in your life.

## Is that what I intend to achieve with this blog?

Maybe. I'd like to think that this space can become that kind of hidden gem on the Internet, a place where people can find something of value, reflection and authenticity. But at the end of the day, this blog is primarily for me, a space where I can share my thoughts and experiences without restrictions, and if someone else benefits from that, then that's just a plus.

Writing these lines has the same objective, to write. I like to improve my communication skills in all areas, and in this case it was written expression. Furthermore, writing these lines in English, this language not being my native language, represents an extra challenge. What I would like with this blog is to improve my writing. Well, maybe I'm being too ambitious. Let's just leave it at that my goal is just to write. That's it. For the pleasure of writing.

## And now?

I would like to recommend blogs that I consume, outside of the typical blogging platforms such as Medium, Dev.to, hashnode or others. I find these blogs valuable, with quality content, obviously the majority dedicated to software development:

1. [**Coding Horror**](https://blog.codinghorror.com/): A blog by Jeff Atwood about programming and software development with interesting anecdotes and practical advice.
2. [**Overreacted**](https://overreacted.io/): A blog by Dan Abramov, practically the godfather of React, one of the creators of Redux and a developer on the React team, where he shares his thoughts on development and software.
3. [**midu.dev**](https://midu.dev/): A blog by Miguel Ángel Durán, a Spanish developer who writes about JavaScript, React, and other web development topics.
4. [**Flavio Copes**](https://flaviocopes.com/): A blog by Flavio Copes that offers tutorials and resources on web development, including JavaScript, Node.js, and more.
5. [**Kent C. Dodds**](https://kentcdodds.com/blog): A blog by Kent C. Dodds, a well-known developer and educator in the world of JavaScript, React, and testing.
6. [**UI from Mars**](https://www.uifrommars.com/): A blog by Cris Busquets about interface design and user experience, with resources and practical tips for designers and developers.

And one a little offtopic that I love and highly recommend:

1. [**The Marginalian**](https://www.themarginalian.org/): Created by Maria Popova, this blog is a mix of literature, history, science and art, offering deep and beautifully written reflections.

I hope you enjoy exploring these blogs as much as I do. Happy reading!